<<<<<<< HEAD
We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union,
establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common
defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to
ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the
United States of America.

Article 1.

Section 1
All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the
United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives.

Section 2
The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every second
Year by the People of the several States, and the Electors in each State shall
have the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous Branch of
the State Legislature.

No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to the Age of
twenty five Years, and been seven Years a Citizen of the United States, and who
shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State in which he shall be
chosen.

Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned among the several States
which may be included within this Union, according to their respective Numbers,
which shall be determined by adding to the whole Number of free Persons,
including those bound to Service for a Term of Years, and excluding Indians not
taxed, three fifths of all other Persons.

The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the first Meeting
of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent Term of ten
Years, in such Manner as they shall by Law direct. The Number of
Representatives shall not exceed one for every thirty Thousand, but each State
shall have at Least one Representative; and until such enumeration shall be
made, the State of New Hampshire shall be entitled to choose three,
Massachusetts eight, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations one, Connecticut
five, New York six, New Jersey four, Pennsylvania eight, Delaware one, Maryland
six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five, South Carolina five and Georgia three.

When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, the Executive
Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill such Vacancies.

The House of Representatives shall choose their Speaker and other Officers; and
shall have the sole Power of Impeachment.

Section 3
The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each
State, chosen by the Legislature thereof, for six Years; and each Senator shall
have one Vote.

Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence of the first Election,
they shall be divided as equally as may be into three Classes. The Seats of the
Senators of the first Class shall be vacated at the Expiration of the second
Year, of the second Class at the Expiration of the fourth Year, and of the
third Class at the Expiration of the sixth Year, so that one third may be
chosen every second Year; and if Vacancies happen by Resignation, or otherwise,
during the Recess of the Legislature of any State, the Executive thereof may
make temporary Appointments until the next Meeting of the Legislature, which
shall then fill such Vacancies.

No person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty
Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not,
when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which he shall be chosen.

The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the Senate, but
shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.

The Senate shall choose their other Officers, and also a President pro tempore,
in the absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercise the Office of
President of the United States.

The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments. When sitting for
that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation. When the President of the
United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person shall be
convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members present.

Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from
Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust or
Profit under the United States: but the Party convicted shall nevertheless be
liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to
Law.

Section 4
The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and
Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof;
but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations, except
as to the Place of Choosing Senators.

The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year, and such Meeting shall
be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall by Law appoint a
different Day.

Section 5
Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of
its own Members, and a Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do
Business; but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day, and may be
authorized to compel the Attendance of absent Members, in such Manner, and
under such Penalties as each House may provide.

Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, punish its Members for
disorderly Behavior, and, with the Concurrence of two-thirds, expel a Member.

Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and from time to time
publish the same, excepting such Parts as may in their Judgment require
Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the Members of either House on any question
shall, at the Desire of one fifth of those Present, be entered on the Journal.

Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the Consent of
the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other Place than that
in which the two Houses shall be sitting.

Section 6
The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their
Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United
States. They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and Breach of the
Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the Session of
their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the same; and for
any Speech or Debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other
Place.

No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he was elected,
be appointed to any civil Office under the Authority of the United States which
shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been increased
during such time; and no Person holding any Office under the United States,
shall be a Member of either House during his Continuance in Office.


Section 7
All bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives;
but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendments as on other Bills.

Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate,
shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of the United
States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his
Objections to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the
Objections at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after
such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it
shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it
shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it
shall become a Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be
determined by Yeas and Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for and
against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House respectively. If
any Bill shall not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays
excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the Same shall be a Law,
in like Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their Adjournment
prevent its Return, in which Case it shall not be a Law.

Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senate and
House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question of Adjournment)
shall be presented to the President of the United States; and before the Same
shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, or being disapproved by him, shall
be repassed by two thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives, according
to the Rules and Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill.


Section 8
The Congress shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and
Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be
uniform throughout the United States;

To borrow money on the credit of the United States;

To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;

To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United States;

To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the
Standard of Weights and Measures;

To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities and current Coin
of the United States;

To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;

To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited
Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings
and Discoveries;

To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;

To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas, and
Offenses against the Law of Nations;

To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning
Captures on Land and Water;

To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Use shall be
for a longer Term than two Years;

To provide and maintain a Navy;

To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces;

To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union,
suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;

To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for
governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United
States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers,
and the Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline
prescribed by Congress;

To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such District
(not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of particular States, and
the acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United
States, and to exercise like Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent
of the Legislature of the State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of
Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings; And

To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into
Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.

Section 9
The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of the States now existing
shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to
the Year one thousand eight hundred and eight, but a tax or duty may be imposed
on such Importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each Person.

The privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when
in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.

No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.

No capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion to the
Census or Enumeration herein before directed to be taken.

No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State.

No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue to the
Ports of one State over those of another: nor shall Vessels bound to, or from,
one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in another.

No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from time to time.

No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: And no Person
holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of
the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind
whatever, from any King, Prince or foreign State.

Section 10
No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters
of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make any Thing but
gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any Bill of Attainder,
ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any
Title of Nobility.

No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties
on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing
its inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by
any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Treasury of the
United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the Revision and Control
of the Congress.

No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any duty of Tonnage, keep
Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into any Agreement or Compact
with another State, or with a foreign Power, or engage in War, unless actually
invaded, or in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay.

Article 2.

Section 1
The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of
America. He shall hold his Office during the Term of four Years, and, together
with the Vice-President chosen for the same Term, be elected, as follows:

Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct,
a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and Representatives
to which the State may be entitled in the Congress: but no Senator or
Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit under the United
States, shall be appointed an Elector.

The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballot for two
persons, of whom one at least shall not lie an Inhabitant of the same State
with themselves. And they shall make a List of all the Persons voted for, and
of the Number of Votes for each; which List they shall sign and certify, and
transmit sealed to the Seat of the Government of the United States, directed to
the President of the Senate. The President of the Senate shall, in the Presence
of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and the
Votes shall then be counted. The Person having the greatest Number of Votes
shall be the President, if such Number be a Majority of the whole Number of
Electors appointed; and if there be more than one who have such Majority, and
have an equal Number of Votes, then the House of Representatives shall
immediately choose by Ballot one of them for President; and if no Person have a
Majority, then from the five highest on the List the said House shall in like
Manner choose the President. But in choosing the President, the Votes shall be
taken by States, the Representation from each State having one Vote; a quorum
for this Purpose shall consist of a Member or Members from two-thirds of the
States, and a Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a Choice. In
every Case, after the Choice of the President, the Person having the greatest
Number of Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President. But if there
should remain two or more who have equal Votes, the Senate shall choose from
them by Ballot the Vice-President.

The Congress may determine the Time of choosing the Electors, and the Day on
which they shall give their Votes; which Day shall be the same throughout the
United States.

No person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the United States, at
the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be eligible to the Office
of President; neither shall any Person be eligible to that Office who shall not
have attained to the Age of thirty-five Years, and been fourteen Years a
Resident within the United States.

In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death,
Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the said
Office, the same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the Congress may by
Law provide for the Case of Removal, Death, Resignation or Inability, both of
the President and Vice President, declaring what Officer shall then act as
President, and such Officer shall act accordingly, until the Disability be
removed, or a President shall be elected.

The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his Services, a Compensation,
which shall neither be increased nor diminished during the Period for which he
shall have been elected, and he shall not receive within that Period any other
Emolument from the United States, or any of them.

Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the following
Oath or Affirmation:

"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of
President of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve,
protect and defend the Constitution of the United States."

Section 2
The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United
States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into the actual
Service of the United States; he may require the Opinion, in writing, of the
principal Officer in each of the executive Departments, upon any subject
relating to the Duties of their respective Offices, and he shall have Power to
Grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offenses against the United States, except in
Cases of Impeachment.

He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, to make
Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur; and he shall
nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint
Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the supreme Court,
and all other Officers of the United States, whose Appointments are not herein
otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by Law: but the Congress
may by Law vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think
proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of
Departments.

The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen during
the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which shall expire at the End
of their next Session.

Section 3
He shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the
Union, and recommend to their Consideration such Measures as he shall judge
necessary and expedient; he may, on extraordinary Occasions, convene both
Houses, or either of them, and in Case of Disagreement between them, with
Respect to the Time of Adjournment, he may adjourn them to such Time as he
shall think proper; he shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he
shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all
the Officers of the United States.

Section 4
The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States,
shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason,
Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.

Article 3.

Section 1
The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court,
and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and
establish. The Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold
their Offices during good Behavior, and shall, at stated Times, receive for
their Services a Compensation which shall not be diminished during their
Continuance in Office.

Section 2
The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under
this Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and Treaties made, or which
shall be made, under their Authority; to all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other
public Ministers and Consuls; to all Cases of admiralty and maritime
Jurisdiction; to Controversies to which the United States shall be a Party; to
Controversies between two or more States; between a State and Citizens of
another State; between Citizens of different States; between Citizens of the
same State claiming Lands under Grants of different States, and between a
State, or the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects.

In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, and
those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme Court shall have original
Jurisdiction. In all the other Cases before mentioned, the supreme Court shall
have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions, and
under such Regulations as the Congress shall make.

The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury; and
such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes shall have been
committed; but when not committed within any State, the Trial shall be at such
Place or Places as the Congress may by Law have directed.

Section 3
Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying War against
them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort. No Person
shall be convicted of Treason unless on the Testimony of two Witnesses to the
same overt Act, or on Confession in open Court.

The Congress shall have power to declare the Punishment of Treason, but no
Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood, or Forfeiture except
during the Life of the Person attainted.

Article 4.

Section 1
Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records,
and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by general
Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be
proved, and the Effect thereof.

Section 2
The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities
of Citizens in the several States.

A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, who shall
flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on demand of the
executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be
removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime.

No Person held to Service or Labour in one State, under the Laws thereof,
escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of any Law or Regulation therein,
be discharged from such Service or Labour, But shall be delivered up on Claim
of the Party to whom such Service or Labour may be due.

Section 3
New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union; but no new States
shall be formed or erected within the Jurisdiction of any other State; nor any
State be formed by the Junction of two or more States, or parts of States,
without the Consent of the Legislatures of the States concerned as well as of
the Congress.

The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and
Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United
States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as to Prejudice
any Claims of the United States, or of any particular State.

Section 4
The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican
Form of Government, and shall protect each of them against Invasion; and on
Application of the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature
cannot be convened) against domestic Violence.

Article 5.

The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary, shall
propose Amendments to this Constitution, or, on the Application of the
Legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall call a Convention for
proposing Amendments, which, in either Case, shall be valid to all Intents and
Purposes, as part of this Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of
three fourths of the several States, or by Conventions in three fourths
thereof, as the one or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the
Congress; Provided that no Amendment which may be made prior to the Year One
thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any Manner affect the first and
fourth Clauses in the Ninth Section of the first Article; and that no State,
without its Consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the Senate.

Article 6.

All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into, before the Adoption of this
Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States under this
Constitution, as under the Confederation.

This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in
Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the
Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the
Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or
Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding.

The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members of the
several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers, both of
the United States and of the several States, shall be bound by Oath or
Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but no religious Test shall ever be
required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United
States.

Article 7.

The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient for the
Establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the Same.

Done in Convention by the Unanimous Consent of the States present the
Seventeenth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and Eighty seven and of the Independence of the United States of America the
Twelfth. In Witness whereof We have hereunto subscribed our Names.

George Washington - President and deputy from Virginia

New Hampshire - John Langdon, Nicholas Gilman

Massachusetts - Nathaniel Gorham, Rufus King

Connecticut - William Samuel Johnson, Roger Sherman

New York - Alexander Hamilton

New Jersey - William Livingston, David Brearley, William Paterson, Jonathan
Dayton

Pennsylvania - Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Mifflin, Robert Morris, George Clymer,
Thomas Fitzsimons, Jared Ingersoll, James Wilson, Gouvernour Morris

Delaware - George Read, Gunning Bedford Jr., John Dickinson, Richard Bassett,
Jacob Broom

Maryland - James McHenry, Daniel of St Thomas Jenifer, Daniel Carroll

Virginia - John Blair, James Madison Jr.

North Carolina - William Blount, Richard Dobbs Spaight, Hugh Williamson

South Carolina - John Rutledge, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, Charles Pinckney,
Pierce Butler

Georgia - William Few, Abraham Baldwin

Attest: William Jackson, Secretary


Amendment 1
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or
of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition
the Government for a redress of grievances.

Amendment 2
A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the
right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.

Amendment 3
No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the
consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by
law.

Amendment 4
The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and
effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and
no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or
affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the
persons or things to be seized.

Amendment 5
No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime,
unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising
in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time
of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offense
to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any
criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be
taken for public use, without just compensation.

Amendment 6
In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and
public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime
shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously
ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the
accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the Assistance of
Counsel for his defence.

Amendment 7
In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty
dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a
jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the United States, than
according to the rules of the common law.

Amendment 8
Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel
and unusual punishments inflicted.

Amendment 9
The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed
to deny or disparage others retained by the people.

Amendment 10
The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor
prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to
the people.

Amendment 11
The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any
suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States
by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State.

Amendment 12
The Electors shall meet in their respective states, and vote by ballot for
President and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an inhabitant
of the same state with themselves; they shall name in their ballots the person
voted for as President, and in distinct ballots the person voted for as
Vice-President, and they shall make distinct lists of all persons voted for as
President, and of all persons voted for as Vice-President and of the number of
votes for each, which lists they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to
the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the President of
the Senate;

The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and House of
Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes shall then be counted;

The person having the greatest Number of votes for President, shall be the
President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors
appointed; and if no person have such majority, then from the persons having
the highest numbers not exceeding three on the list of those voted for as
President, the House of Representatives shall choose immediately, by ballot,
the President. But in choosing the President, the votes shall be taken by
states, the representation from each state having one vote; a quorum for this
purpose shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the states, and
a majority of all the states shall be necessary to a choice. And if the House
of Representatives shall not choose a President whenever the right of choice
shall devolve upon them, before the fourth day of March next following, then
the Vice-President shall act as President, as in the case of the death or other
constitutional disability of the President.

The person having the greatest number of votes as Vice-President, shall be the
Vice-President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors
appointed, and if no person have a majority, then from the two highest numbers
on the list, the Senate shall choose the Vice-President; a quorum for the
purpose shall consist of two-thirds of the whole number of Senators, and a
majority of the whole number shall be necessary to a choice. But no person
constitutionally ineligible to the office of President shall be eligible to
that of Vice-President of the United States.

Amendment 13
1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime
whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United
States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.

2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation.

Amendment 14
1. All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State
wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
laws.

2. Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States according to
their respective numbers, counting the whole number of persons in each State,
excluding Indians not taxed. But when the right to vote at any election for the
choice of electors for President and Vice-President of the United States,
Representatives in Congress, the Executive and Judicial officers of a State, or
the members of the Legislature thereof, is denied to any of the male
inhabitants of such State, being twenty-one years of age, and citizens of the
United States, or in any way abridged, except for participation in rebellion,
or other crime, the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in the
proportion which the number of such male citizens shall bear to the whole
number of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such State.

3. No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress, or elector of
President and Vice-President, or hold any office, civil or military, under the
United States, or under any State, who, having previously taken an oath, as a
member of Congress, or as an officer of the United States, or as a member of
any State legislature, or as an executive or judicial officer of any State, to
support the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged in
insurrection or rebellion against the same, or given aid or comfort to the
enemies thereof. But Congress may by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove
such disability.

4. The validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by law,
including debts incurred for payment of pensions and bounties for services in
suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall not be questioned. But neither the
United States nor any State shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred
in aid of insurrection or rebellion against the United States, or any claim for
the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such debts, obligations and
claims shall be held illegal and void.

5. The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the
provisions of this article.

Amendment 15
1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or
abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or
previous condition of servitude.

2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation.

Amendment 16
The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from
whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several States, and
without regard to any census or enumeration.

Amendment 17
The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each
State, elected by the people thereof, for six years; and each Senator shall
have one vote. The electors in each State shall have the qualifications
requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the State legislatures.

When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the Senate, the
executive authority of such State shall issue writs of election to fill such
vacancies: Provided, That the legislature of any State may empower the
executive thereof to make temporary appointments until the people fill the
vacancies by election as the legislature may direct.

This amendment shall not be so construed as to affect the election or term of
any Senator chosen before it becomes valid as part of the Constitution.

Amendment 18
1. After one year from the ratification of this article the manufacture, sale,
or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into,
or the exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to
the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes is hereby prohibited.

2. The Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power to enforce
this article by appropriate legislation.

3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an
amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of the several States, as
provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the
submission hereof to the States by the Congress.

Amendment 19
The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or
abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.

Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.

Amendment 20
1. The terms of the President and Vice President shall end at noon on the 20th
day of January, and the terms of Senators and Representatives at noon on the 3d
day of January, of the years in which such terms would have ended if this
article had not been ratified; and the terms of their successors shall then
begin.

2. The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year, and such meeting
shall begin at noon on the 3d day of January, unless they shall by law appoint
a different day.

3. If, at the time fixed for the beginning of the term of the President, the
President elect shall have died, the Vice President elect shall become
President. If a President shall not have been chosen before the time fixed for
the beginning of his term, or if the President elect shall have failed to
qualify, then the Vice President elect shall act as President until a President
shall have qualified; and the Congress may by law provide for the case wherein
neither a President elect nor a Vice President elect shall have qualified,
declaring who shall then act as President, or the manner in which one who is to
act shall be selected, and such person shall act accordingly until a President
or Vice President shall have qualified.

4. The Congress may by law provide for the case of the death of any of the
persons from whom the House of Representatives may choose a President whenever
the right of choice shall have devolved upon them, and for the case of the
death of any of the persons from whom the Senate may choose a Vice President
whenever the right of choice shall have devolved upon them.

5. Sections 1 and 2 shall take effect on the 15th day of October following the
ratification of this article.

6. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an
amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths of the
several States within seven years from the date of its submission.

Amendment 21
1. The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States
is hereby repealed.

2. The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession
of the United States for delivery or use therein of intoxicating liquors, in
violation of the laws thereof, is hereby prohibited.

3. The article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an
amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the several States, as provided
in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof
to the States by the Congress.

Amendment 22
1. No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice,
and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as President, for
more than two years of a term to which some other person was elected President
shall be elected to the office of the President more than once. But this
Article shall not apply to any person holding the office of President, when this
Article was proposed by the Congress, and shall not prevent any person who may
be holding the office of President, or acting as President, during the term
within which this Article becomes operative from holding the office of
President or acting as President during the remainder of such term.

2. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an
amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths of the
several States within seven years from the date of its submission to the States
by the Congress.

Amendment 23
1. The District constituting the seat of Government of the United States shall
appoint in such manner as the Congress may direct: A number of electors of
President and Vice President equal to the whole number of Senators and
Representatives in Congress to which the District would be entitled if it were
a State, but in no event more than the least populous State; they shall be in
addition to those appointed by the States, but they shall be considered, for
the purposes of the election of President and Vice President, to be electors
appointed by a State; and they shall meet in the District and perform such
duties as provided by the twelfth article of amendment.

2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation.

Amendment 24
1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote in any primary or other
election for President or Vice President, for electors for President or
Vice President, or for Senator or Representative in Congress, shall not be
denied or abridged by the United States or any State by reason of failure to
pay any poll tax or other tax.

2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation.

Amendment 25
1. In case of the removal of the President from office or of his death or
resignation, the Vice President shall become President.

2. Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice President, the
President shall nominate a Vice President who shall take office upon
confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses of Congress.

3. Whenever the President transmits to the President pro tempore of the Senate
and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written declaration that he
is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, and until he
transmits to them a written declaration to the contrary, such powers and duties
shall be discharged by the Vice President as Acting President.

4. Whenever the Vice President and a majority of either the principal officers
of the executive departments or of such other body as Congress may by law
provide, transmit to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of
the House of Representatives their written declaration that the President is
unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, the Vice President
shall immediately assume the powers and duties of the office as Acting
President.

Thereafter, when the President transmits to the President pro tempore of the
Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written declaration
that no inability exists, he shall resume the powers and duties of his office
unless the Vice President and a majority of either the principal officers of
the executive department or of such other body as Congress may by law provide,
transmit within four days to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the
Speaker of the House of Representatives their written declaration that the
President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office. Thereupon
Congress shall decide the issue, assembling within forty eight hours for that
purpose if not in session. If the Congress, within twenty one days after
receipt of the latter written declaration, or, if Congress is not in session,
within twenty one days after Congress is required to assemble, determines by
two thirds vote of both Houses that the President is unable to discharge the
powers and duties of his office, the Vice President shall continue to discharge
the same as Acting President; otherwise, the President shall resume the powers
and duties of his office.

Amendment 26
1. The right of citizens of the United States, who are eighteen years of age or
older, to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any
State on account of age.

2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation.

Amendment 27
No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Senators and
Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of Representatives shall
have intervened.
=======
PREAMBLE
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is the socialist motherland of Juche where the ideas and leadership of the great Comrades Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il are applied.
The great Comrade Kim Il Sung was the founder of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the father of socialist Korea.
Comrade Kim Il Sung authored the immortal Juche idea and, by organizing and leading the anti-Japanese revolutionary struggle under its banner, created the glorious revolutionary traditions and achieved the historic cause of national restoration. He laid solid foundations for the building of an independent and sovereign State in the political, economic, cultural and military fields, and based on them, founded the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Having put forward Juche-oriented revolutionary lines, Comrade Kim Il Sung wisely led various stages of social revolution and construction work, thus strengthening and developing the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea into a socialist country centred on the masses, into a socialist State which is independent, self-sufficient and self-reliant in defence.
Comrade Kim Il Sung elucidated the fundamental principles governing the building and activities of the State, established an ideal State and social system, an ideal mode of politics and an ideal system and ideal methods for administering society, and laid solid foundations for the prosperity of the socialist motherland and for the inheritance and completion of the revolutionary cause of Juche.
The great Comrade Kim Jong Il was a peerless patriot and defender of socialist Korea who, true to the ideas and cause of Comrade Kim Il Sung, strengthened and developed the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea into Kim Il Sung’s State and placed the dignity and power of the nation on the highest ever plane.
Comrade Kim Jong Il developed in depth and in an all-round way the immortal Juche idea and Songun idea authored by Comrade Kim Il Sung, further perfecting them as ideas guiding the era of independence, and ensured the continuity of the Korean revolution by firmly defending the revolutionary traditions of Juche and carrying them forward in their purity and entirety.
In the face of the collapse of the world socialist system and the vicious offensive of the imperialist allied forces to stifle the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Comrade Kim Jong Il administered Songun politics; thus he safeguarded with honour the achievements of socialism which are the precious legacy of Comrade Kim Il Sung, developed the DPRK into an invincible politico-ideological power, a nuclear state and an unchallengeable military power, and opened a broad avenue for the building of a powerful socialist country.
Regarding “The people are my God” as their maxim, Comrades Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il always mixed with the people, devoted their whole lives to them and turned the whole of society into a large family which is united in one mind by taking care of the people and leading them through their noble benevolent politics.
The great Comrades Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il are the sun of the nation and the lodestar of national reunification. Regarding the reunification of the country as the supreme national task, they devoted all their efforts and care for its realization. They made the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea a powerful bastion for national reunification. At the same time, they set out the fundamental principle and ways of achieving national reunification and developed the movement for national reunification into a nationwide movement, opening the way for completing the cause of reunification through the united efforts of the whole nation.
The great Comrades Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il clarified the basic ideals of the foreign policy of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. On the basis of this, they expanded and developed the country’s foreign relations and ensured that the international prestige of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea was exalted. As veteran world statesmen, they opened up a new era of independence, carried out energetic activities for strengthening and developing the socialist movement and the non-aligned movement, as well as for world peace and for friendship among peoples, and made an imperishable contribution to the cause of human independence.
Comrade Kim Il Sung and Comrade Kim Jong Il were geniuses of ideology and theory, masters of the leadership art, ever-victorious iron-willed brilliant commanders, great revolutionaries and statesmen, and great men.
The great ideas of Comrade Kim Il Sung and Comrade Kim Jong Il and the great achievements made under their leadership are the lasting treasures of the Korean revolution and the basic guarantee for the prosperity of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, and the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun where Comrade Kim Il Sung and Comrade Kim Jong Il are preserved in their lifetime appearance is a grand monument to their immortality and a symbol of the dignity and eternal sanctuary of the entire Korean nation.
Under the leadership of the Workers’ Party of Korea, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Korean people will uphold the great Comrades Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il as the eternal leaders of Juche Korea, and will carry the revolutionary cause of Juche through to completion by defending and carrying forward their ideas and achievements.
The Socialist Constitution of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea shall, as the codification of the Juche-oriented ideas of the great Comrades Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il on State building and their exploits in it, be called Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il Constitution.
CHAPTER I. POLITICS
Article 1. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is an independent socialist State representing the interests of all the Korean people.
Article 2. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a revolutionary State which has inherited the brilliant traditions formed during the glorious revolutionary struggle against the imperialist aggressors and in the struggle to achieve the liberation of the homeland and the freedom and well-being of the people.
Article 3. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is guided in its activities by the Juche idea and the Songun idea, a world outlook centred on people, a revolutionary ideology for achieving the independence of the masses of the people.
Article 4. The sovereignty of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea resides in the workers, peasants, soldiers, working intellectuals and all other working people. The working people exercise State power through their representative organs–the Supreme People’s Assembly and local People’s Assemblies at all levels.
Article 5. All State organs in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea are formed and function on the principle of democratic centralism.
Article 6. The organs of State power at all levels, from the county People’s Assembly to the Supreme People’s Assembly, are elected on the principle of universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot.
Article 7. Deputies to the organs of State power at all levels have close ties with their constituents and are accountable to them for their work. The electors may recall at any time the deputies they have elected if the latter lose the trust of the former.
Article 8. The social system of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a people-centred system under which the working people are the masters of everything and everything in society serves them. The State shall defend the interests of the workers, peasants, soldiers, working intellectuals and all other working people who have been freed from exploitation and oppression and become the masters of the State and society, and respect and protect human rights.
Article 9. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea shall strive to achieve the complete victory of socialism in the northern half of Korea by strengthening the people’s power and vigorously performing the three revolutions–ideological, technological and cultural–and reunify the country on the principle of independence, peaceful reunification and great national unity.
Article 10. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is underpinned by the politico-ideological unity of all the people based on the worker-peasant alliance led by the working class. The State shall revolutionize all the members of society, and assimilate them to the working class by intensifying the ideological revolution, and shall turn the whole of society into a collective, united in a comradely way.
Article 11. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea shall conduct all activities under the leadership of the Workers’ Party of Korea.
Article 12. The State shall adhere to the class line and strengthen the dictatorship of the people’s democracy so as to firmly defend the people’s power and socialist system against all subversive acts of hostile elements at home and abroad.
Article 13. The State shall implement the mass line and apply the Chongsanri spirit and Chongsanri method to all its activities, the spirit and method by which superiors assist their subordinates, mix with the masses to find solutions to problems and rouse them to conscious enthusiasm by giving precedence to political work, work with people.
Article 14. The State shall determinedly conduct the Three-Revolution Red Flag Movement and other mass movements so as to accelerate the building of socialism to the maximum.
Article 15. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea shall champion the democratic national rights of Koreans overseas and their rights recognized by international law as well as their interests.
Article 16. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea shall guarantee the legal rights and interests of foreigners in its territory.
Article 17. Independence, peace and friendship are the basic ideals of the foreign policy and the principles of the external activities of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The State shall establish diplomatic as well as political, economic and cultural relations with all friendly countries, on the principles of complete equality, independence, mutual respect, non-interference in each other’s affairs and mutual benefit. The State shall promote unity with people all over the world who defend their independence, and resolutely support and encourage the struggles of all people who oppose all forms of aggression and interference and fight for their countries’ independence and national and class emancipation.
Article 18. The law of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea reflects the wishes and interests of the working people and is a basic instrument for State administration. Respect for the law and strict adherence to and execution of it is the duty of all institutions, enterprises, organizations and citizens. The State shall perfect the system of socialist law and promote the socialist law-abiding life.
CHAPTER II. THE ECONOMY
Article 19. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea relies on socialist relations of production and on the foundation of an independent national economy.
Article 20. In the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea the means of production are owned by the State and social, cooperative organizations.
Article 21. The property of the State belongs to all the people. There is no limit to the property which the State can own. All natural resources, railways, air transport service, post and telecommunications establishments, as well as major factories and enterprises, ports and banks of the country are owned solely by the State. The State shall protect and develop on a preferential basis State property which plays the leading role in the economic development of the country.
Article 22. The property of social, cooperative organizations is collectively owned by the working people involved in the organizations concerned. Land, farm machinery and ships, as well as small and medium-sized factories and enterprises may be owned by social, cooperative organizations. The State shall protect the property of social, cooperative organizations.
Article 23. The State shall enhance the ideological consciousness and the technical and cultural level of the peasants, increase the role of the property of all the people in leading the cooperative property so as to combine the two forms of property in an organic way, and shall consolidate and develop the socialist cooperative economic system by improving the guidance and management of the cooperative economy and gradually transform the property of cooperative organizations into the property of the people as a whole based on the voluntary will of all their members.
Article 24. Private property is property owned and consumed by individual citizens. Private property is derived from socialist distribution according to work done and from supplementary benefits granted by the State and society. The products of individual sideline activities including those from kitchen gardens, as well as income from other legal economic activities shall also be private property. The State shall protect private property and guarantee by law the right to inherit it.
Article 25. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea regards the steady improvement of the material and cultural standards of the people as the supreme principle of its activities. The increasing material wealth of society in our country, where taxes have been abolished, is used entirely to promote the well-being of the working people. The State shall provide all the working people with every condition for obtaining food, clothing and housing.
Article 26. The independent national economy of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a solid foundation for the people’s happy socialist life and for the country’s prosperity. The State, adhering to the line of building a socialist, independent national economy, shall endeavour to promote the national economy on a Juche-oriented, modern and scientific basis so as to make the national economy a highly developed, Juche-oriented economy and build material and technical foundations commensurate with a completely socialist society.
Article 27. The technological revolution is a basic link for developing the socialist economy. The State shall conduct all economic activities giving primary preference to technical development at all times, push ahead with scientific and technological development and the technical renovation of the national economy and vigorously promote the mass technical innovation movement so as to free the working people from difficult, tiresome labour and to narrow the distinctions between physical and mental labour.
Article 28. The State shall industrialize and modernize agriculture through the rural technical revolution and improve the role of the county and its guidance and assistance to rural areas in order to eliminate the difference between town and countryside and the class distinction between workers and peasants. The State shall undertake, at its own expense, the building of production facilities for cooperative farms and modern houses in the countryside.
Article 29. Socialism is built by the creative labour of the working people. Labour in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is independent and creative labour of the working people, freed from exploitation and oppression. The State renders the labour of our working people, to whom unemployment is unknown, more joyful and worthwhile, so that they willingly work with conscious enthusiasm and creativeness for society, the collective and themselves.
Article 30. The working day shall be eight hours. The length of the working day shall be reduced by the State in arduous trades and other special categories of work. The State shall guarantee that the working hours are fully utilized through proper organization of labour and enforcement of labour discipline.
Article 31. In the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea the minimum working age is 16 years. The State shall prohibit the employment of those under the minimum working age.
Article 32. The State shall firmly adhere to the principle of properly combining political guidance with economic and technical guidance, the unified guidance of the State with the creativeness of each unit, unitary direction with democracy, and political and moral incentive with material incentive in the guidance and management of the socialist economy.
Article 33. The State shall direct and manage the national economy through the Taean work system, a socialist form of economic management whereby the economy is operated and managed scientifically and rationally on the basis of the collective efforts of the producer masses, and through the system of agricultural guidance whereby agricultural management is conducted by industrial methods. The State shall enforce the self-accounting system in economic management to meet the requirements of the Taean work system, and shall make proper use of such economic levers as cost, price and profit.
Article 34. The national economy of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a planned economy. The State shall draw up and implement the plans for the development of the national economy in accordance with the laws of socialist economic development so that the balance between accumulation and consumption can be maintained correctly, economic construction accelerated, the people’s standard of living steadily raised and the nation’s defence capabilities strengthened. The State shall ensure a high rate of growth in production and a balanced development of the national economy by implementing unified and detailed planning.
Article 35. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea shall compile and implement the State budget according to the national economic development plan. The State shall systematically increase its material accumulation and expand and develop socialist property by intensifying the campaign for increased production and greater economy and by exercising strict financial control in all spheres.
Article 36. In the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea foreign trade is conducted by the State organs and enterprises, and social, cooperative organizations. The State shall develop foreign trade on the principles of complete equality and mutual benefit.
Article 37. The State shall encourage institutions, enterprises and organizations in the country to conduct equity or contractual joint ventures with foreign corporations and individuals, and to establish and operate enterprises of various kinds in special economic zones.
Article 38. The State shall pursue a tariff policy to protect the independent national economy.
CHAPTER III. CULTURE
Article 39. Socialist culture, which is flourishing and developing in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, contributes to improving the creative ability of the working people and to meeting their sound cultural and aesthetic demands.
Article 40. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea shall, by carrying out a thorough cultural revolution, train all the people to be builders of socialism equipped with a profound knowledge of nature and society and a high level of culture and technology, thus making the whole of society intellectual.
Article 41. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea shall develop a truly people-oriented, revolutionary culture which serves the socialist working people.
In building a socialist national culture, the State shall oppose the cultural infiltration of imperialism and any tendency to return to the past, protect its national cultural heritage, and develop it in keeping with the existing socialist situation.
Article 42. The State shall eliminate the way of life inherited from the outmoded society and establish a new socialist way of life in every sphere.
Article 43. The State shall embody the principles of socialist pedagogy so as to raise the rising generation to be steadfast revolutionaries who will fight for society and the people, to be people of the new, Juche type who are knowledgeable, morally sound and physically healthy.
Article 44. The State shall give precedence to public education and the training of cadres for the nation and closely combine general education with technological education, and education with productive labour.
Article 45. The State shall develop universal compulsory twelve-year education which includes compulsory one-year preschool education at a high level in accordance with the trend of modern science and technology and the practical requirements of socialist construction.
Article 46. The State shall train competent technicians and experts by enhancing the regular educational system as well as different forms of studying while working, and by improving the scientific and theoretical levels of technological education and education in the social and basic sciences.
Article 47. The State shall provide education to all pupils and students free of charge and grant allowances to students at universities and colleges.
Article 48. The State shall strengthen social education and provide the working people with all conditions for study.
Article 49. The State shall maintain all children of preschool age in creches and kindergartens at State and public expense.
Article 50. The State shall establish Juche in scientific research, introduce advanced science and technology in every possible way, open up new areas of science and technology and raise the country’s science and technology to the world level.
Article 51. The State shall elaborate a correct plan to develop science and technology, set up a strict discipline to implement it, and strengthen creative cooperation among scientists, technicians and producers.
Article 52. The State shall develop Juche-oriented, revolutionary art and literature, national in form and socialist in content. The State shall encourage creative workers and artists to produce works of high ideological and artistic value and enlist the broad sections of the masses in literary and artistic activities.
Article 53. The State shall provide sufficient modern cultural facilities to meet the demands of the people who want to continually improve themselves, both mentally and physically, so that the working people enjoy a full socialist cultured, aesthetic life.
Article 54. The State shall safeguard our language from all attempts to obliterate it and shall develop it to meet present-day needs.
Article 55. The State shall thoroughly prepare all the people for work and national defence by popularizing physical culture and sport and making it their daily regime, and augment sporting skills to meet our country’s reality and the trend in modern sporting skills.
Article 56. The State shall protect the people’s lives and improve the working people’s health by consolidating and developing the system of universal free medical service and improving the district doctor system and the system of preventive medicine.
Article 57. The State shall adopt measures to protect the environment, giving it preference over production, preserve and promote the natural environment and prevent environmental pollution so as to provide the people with a hygienic living environment and working conditions.
CHAPTER IV. NATIONAL DEFENCE
Article 58. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is shored up by the all-people, nationwide defence system.
Article 59. The mission of the armed forces of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is to defend the leadership of the revolution, to safeguard the interests of the working people, to defend the socialist system and the gains of the revolution, and to protect the freedom, independence and peace of the country from foreign aggression by implementing the Songun-based revolutionary line.
Article 60. The State shall implement the line of self-reliant defence, the import of which is to train the army to be a cadre army, modernize the army, arm all the people and fortify the country on the basis of equipping the army and the people politically and ideologically.
Article 61. The State shall establish a revolutionary command system and military climate, strengthen military and mass disciplines in the army, and give full play to the noble traditional traits of unity between officers and men, combination of the military and political work and unity between the army and the people.
CHAPTER V. FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF CITIZENS
Article 62. The requirements for becoming a citizen of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea are defined by the Law on Nationality. 
A citizen is under the protection of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea regardless of domicile.
Article 63. In the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea the rights and duties of citizens are based on the collectivist principle: “One for all and all for one.”
Article 64. The State shall effectively guarantee the genuine democratic rights and freedoms as well as the material and cultural well-being of all its citizens. 
In the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea the rights and freedoms of citizens shall be amplified with the consolidation and development of the socialist system.
Article 65. Citizens enjoy equal rights in all spheres of State and public activity.
Article 66. All citizens who have reached the age of 17 have the right to elect and to be elected, irrespective of sex, race, occupation, length of residence, property status, education, party affiliation, political views or religious belief.
Citizens serving in the armed forces also have the right to elect and to be elected.
A person who has been disenfranchised by a Court decision and a person legally certified insane do not have the right to elect or to be elected.
Article 67. Citizens are guaranteed freedom of speech, the press, assembly, demonstration and association.
The State shall guarantee the conditions for the free activities of democratic political parties and social organizations.
Article 68. Citizens have freedom of religious belief.This right is granted through the approval of the construction of religious buildings and the holding of religious ceremonies.
Religion must not be used as a pretext for drawing in foreign forces or for harming the State or social order.
Article 69. Citizens are entitled to submit complaints and petitions.
The State shall investigate and deal with complaints and petitions impartially as stipulated by law.
Article 70. Citizens have the right to work.
All able-bodied citizens may choose occupations in accordance with their wishes and skills and are provided with stable jobs and working conditions.
Citizens work according to their abilities and are paid in accordance with the quantity and quality of their work.
Article 71. Citizens have the right to relaxation.This right is ensured by the establishment of working hours, and the provision of holidays, paid leave, accommodation at health resorts and holiday homes at State expense and by a growing network of cultural facilities.
Article 72. Citizens are entitled to free medical care, and all persons who are no longer able to work because of old age, illness or physical disability, and seniors and minors who have no means of support are all entitled to material assistance.This right is ensured by free medical care, an expanding network of hospitals, sanatoria and other medical institutions, State social insurance and other social security systems.
Article 73. Citizens have the right to education.This right is ensured by an advanced educational system and by the educational measures enacted by the State for the benefit of the people.
Article 74. Citizens are free to engage in scientific, literary and artistic pursuits.
The State shall grant benefits to inventors and innovators.
Copyrights, inventions and patents shall be protected by law.
Article 75. Citizens have freedom of residence and travel.
Article 76. Revolutionary fighters, the families of revolutionary and patriotic martyrs, the families of soldiers of the People’s Army and soldiers disabled on duty enjoy the special protection of the State and society.
Article 77. Women are accorded equal social status and rights with men.
The State shall afford special protection to mothers and children by providing maternity leave, reduced working hours for mothers with several children, a wide network of maternity hospitals, creches and kindergartens, and other measures.
The State shall provide all conditions for women to play their full roles in society.
Article 78. Marriage and the family shall be protected by the State.
The State pays great attention to consolidating the family, the basic unit of social life.
Article 79. Citizens are guaranteed inviolability of the person and the home, and privacy of correspondence.
No citizen can be placed under control or arrest nor can a citizen’s home be searched without a legal warrant.
Article 80. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea shall grant the right of asylum to foreign nationals persecuted for struggling for peace and democracy, national independence and socialism or for the freedom of scientific and cultural pursuits.
Article 81. Citizens shall firmly safeguard the political and ideological unity and solidarity of the people.
Citizens shall cherish their organization and collective and work devotedly for the good of society and the people.
Article 82. Citizens shall strictly observe the laws of the State and the socialist standards of life and defend their honour and dignity as citizens of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Article 83. Work is the noble duty and honour of a citizen.
Citizens shall willingly and conscientiously participate in work and strictly observe labour discipline and working hours.
Article 84. Citizens shall take good care of the property of the State and social, cooperative organizations, combat all forms of misappropriation and waste and manage the nation’s economy diligently as the masters.
The property of the State and social, cooperative organizations is inviolable.
Article 85. Citizens shall constantly increase their revolutionary vigilance and devotedly fight for the security of the State.
Article 86. National defence is the supreme duty and honour of citizens.
Citizens shall defend the country and serve in the armed forces as required by law.
CHAPTER VI. STATE ORGANS
Section 1. The Supreme People’s Assembly
Article 87. The Supreme People’s Assembly is the highest organ of State power in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Article 88. Legislative power is exercised by the Supreme People’s Assembly.
The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly also may exercise legislative power when the Supreme People’s Assembly is not in session.
Article 89. The Supreme People’s Assembly is composed of deputies elected on the principle of universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot.
Article 90. The Supreme People’s Assembly is elected for a term of five years.
A new Supreme People’s Assembly is elected according to a decision of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly prior to the expiry of the former’s term of office.
When unavoidable circumstances render an election impossible, the term of office of the Supreme People’s Assembly is prolonged until an election can be held.
Article 91. The Supreme People’s Assembly has the authority to:
amend or supplement the Constitution;
adopt, amend or supplement laws;
approve the major laws adopted by the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly, when the Supreme People’s Assembly is not in session;
establish the basic principles of the State’s domestic and foreign policies;
elect or recall the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea;
elect or recall the President of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly;
elect or recall the Vice-Chairmen and members of the State Affairs Commission on the recommendation of the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea;
elect or recall the Vice-Presidents, Honorary Vice-Presidents, Secretary and members of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly;
elect or recall the Premier of the Cabinet;
appoint the Vice-Premiers, Chairmen, Ministers and other members of the Cabinet on the recommendation of the Premier of the Cabinet;
appoint or remove the Prosecutor General of the Central Public Prosecutors Office;
elect or recall the President of the Central Court;
elect or recall the Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and members of the Committees of the Supreme People’s Assembly;
deliberate and approve the State plan for the development of the national economy and the report on its implementation;
deliberate and approve the State budget and the report on its implementation;
hear a report on the work of the Cabinet and the central bodies when necessary, and adopt relevant measures;
decide on ratification and nullification of treaties suggested to the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Article 92. The Supreme People’s Assembly holds regular and extraordinary sessions. Regular sessions are convened once or twice a year by the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Extraordinary sessions are convened when the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly deems them necessary, or at the request of a minimum of one-third of the total number of deputies.
Article 93. The Supreme People’s Assembly requires a quorum of at least two-thirds of the total number of deputies in order to meet.
Article 94. The Supreme People’s Assembly elects its Speaker and Deputy Speaker.
The Speaker presides over the sessions.
Article 95. Items to be considered at the Supreme People’s Assembly are submitted by the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission, the State Affairs Commission, the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly, the Cabinet and the Committees of the Supreme People’s Assembly of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Items can also be presented by deputies.
Article 96. The first session of each Supreme People’s Assembly elects the Credentials Committee and, on hearing the Committee’s report, adopts a decision confirming the credentials of deputies.
Article 97. The Supreme People’s Assembly issues laws, ordinances and decisions.
Laws, ordinances and decisions of the Supreme People’s Assembly are adopted when more than half of the deputies attending signify approval by a show of hands.
The Constitution is amended or supplemented with the approval of more than two-thirds of the total number of deputies to the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Article 98. The Supreme People’s Assembly appoints the Bills Committee, the Budget Committee and other Committees.
The Committees of the Supreme People’s Assembly consist of Chairman, Vice-Chairman and members.
The Committees of the Supreme People’s Assembly assist in the work of the Supreme People’s Assembly; they plan or deliberate the State policy and bills and take measures for their implementation.
The Committees of the Supreme People’s Assembly work under the guidance of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly during the intervals between sessions of the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Article 99. Deputies to the Supreme People’s Assembly are guaranteed inviolability.
No deputy to the Supreme People’s Assembly may be arrested or punished without the consent of the Supreme People’s Assembly or, when it is not in session, without the consent of its Presidium, unless he or she is caught in the act.
Section 2. The Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
Article 100. The Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is the supreme leader of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Article 101. The term of office of the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is the same as that of the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Article 102. The Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is the supreme commander of the whole armed forces of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and commands and directs all the armed forces of the State.
Article 103. The Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has the following duties and authority to:
direct the overall affairs of the State;
personally guide the work of the State Affairs Commission;
appoint or remove key cadres of the State;
ratify or rescind major treaties concluded with other countries;
exercise the right of granting special pardon;
proclaim a state of emergency, a state of war and mobilization order within the country;
organize and direct the National Defence Committee in wartime.
Article 104. The Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea issues orders.
Article 105. The Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is accountable to the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Section 3. The State Affairs Commission
Article 106. The State Affairs Commission is the supreme policy-oriented leadership body of State power.
Article 107. The State Affairs Commission consists of the Chairman, Vice-Chairmen and members.
Article 108. The term of office of the State Affairs Commission is the same as that of the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Article 109. The State Affairs Commission has the following duties and authority to:
discuss and decide important policies of the State, including those for defence building;
exercise supervision over the fulfilment of the orders of the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the decisions and directives of the State Affairs Commission, and take measures for their fulfilment;
abrogate decisions and directives of State organs which run counter to the orders of the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the decisions and directives of the State Affairs Commission.
Article 110. The State Affairs Commission issues decisions and directives.
Article 111. The State Affairs Commission is accountable to the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Section 4. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly
Article 112. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly is the highest organ of State power when the Supreme People’s Assembly is not in session.
Article 113. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly consists of the President, Vice-Presidents, Secretary and members.
Article 114. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly may have a few Honorary Vice-Presidents. Honorary Vice-Presidents of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly may be deputies to the Supreme People’s Assembly who have participated in the work of State building for a long time and rendered distinguished service.
Article 115. The term of office of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly is the same as that of the Supreme People’s Assembly. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly continues its work until a new Presidium is elected, even after the term of the Supreme People’s Assembly expires.
Article 116. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly has the following duties and authority to:
convene sessions of the Supreme People’s Assembly;
deliberate and adopt the new draft bills and regulations and amendments and supplements to the current laws and regulations raised in the intervals between sessions of the Supreme People’s Assembly and obtain the approval of the next session of the Supreme People’s Assembly for major laws which are adopted and enforced;
deliberate and approve the State plan for the development of the national economy, the State budget and plans for their adjustment raised for unavoidable reasons in the intervals between sessions of the Supreme People’s Assembly;
interpret the Constitution as well as current laws and regulations;
supervise law observance by the State organs and take relevant measures;
rescind the decisions and directives of State bodies which run counter to the Constitution, laws, ordinances and decisions of the Supreme People’s Assembly, orders of the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the decisions and directives of the State Affairs Commission, and the decrees, decisions and directives of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly, and suspend the implementation of unwarranted decisions of local People’s Assemblies;
conduct the election of deputies to the Supreme People’s Assembly and organize the elections of deputies to the local People’s Assemblies;
work with the deputies to the Supreme People’s Assembly;
work with the Committees of the Supreme People’s Assembly;
set up or abolish Commissions and Ministries of the Cabinet;
appoint or remove Vice-Premiers, Chairmen, Ministers and other members of the Cabinet on the recommendation of the Premier of the Cabinet when the Supreme People’s Assembly is not in session;
appoint or remove members of Committees of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly;
elect or recall the Judges and People’s Assessors of the Central Court;
approve or nullify treaties concluded with other countries;
decide and make public the appointment or recall of diplomatic representatives to other countries;
institute decorations, medals, titles of honour and diplomatic ranks and confer decorations, medals and titles of honour;
grant general amnesties;
establish or alter administrative units and districts;
conduct external activities including contacts with foreign parliaments and inter-parliamentary organizations.
Article 117. The President of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly organizes and guides the work of the Presidium.
The President of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly represents the State and receives the credentials and letters of recall of diplomatic representatives accredited by foreign countries.
Article 118. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly convenes Plenary Meetings and Meetings of the Permanent Committee. The Plenary Meeting consists of all the members. The Meeting of the Permanent Committee consists of the President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary.
Article 119. The Plenary Meeting of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly deliberates and decides on important matters arising in fulfilling the duties of the Presidium and exercising its authority. The Meeting of the Permanent Committee deliberates and decides on matters entrusted to it by the Plenary Meeting.
Article 120. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly issues decrees, decisions and directives.
Article 121. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly may have Committees to assist it in its work.
Article 122. The Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly is accountable to the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Section 5. The Cabinet
Article 123. The Cabinet is the administrative and executive body of State power and organ of overall State administration.
Article 124. The Cabinet consists of the Premier, Vice-Premiers, Chairmen, Ministers and other members as required.
The term of office of the Cabinet is the same as that of the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Article 125. The Cabinet has the following duties and authority to:
adopt measures for the implementation of State policies;
adopt, amend or supplement the regulations on State administration on the basis of the Constitution and the laws;
direct the work of the Commissions and Ministries of the Cabinet, organs directly under its authority and local People’s Committees;
establish or abolish organs directly under its authority, major administrative and economic bodies and enterprises, and adopt measures for improving State administration bodies;
draft the State plan for the development of the national economy and adopt measures to put it into effect;
compile the State budget and adopt measures to implement it;
organize and execute the work of industry, agriculture, construction, transport, post and telecommunications, commerce, foreign trade, land administration, municipal administration, education, science, culture, health service, physical culture and sport, labour administration, protection of environment, tourism, and so on;
adopt measures to strengthen the monetary and banking system;
inspect and control the establishment of order in State administration;
adopt measures to maintain public order, protect the property and interests of the State and social, cooperative organizations, and safeguard the rights of citizens;
conclude treaties with foreign countries and conduct external affairs;
rescind the decisions and directives of administrative and economic bodies which run counter to the decisions and directives of the Cabinet.
Article 126. The Premier of the Cabinet organizes and guides the work of the Cabinet.
The Premier of the Cabinet represents the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Article 127. The Cabinet convenes Plenary Meetings and Meetings of the Permanent Committee.
The Plenary Meeting of the Cabinet consists of all the members of the Cabinet.
The Meeting of the Permanent Committee consists of the Premier, Vice-Premiers and other members of the Cabinet appointed by the Premier.
Article 128. The Plenary Meeting of the Cabinet deliberates and decides on new and important administrative and economic matters.
The Meeting of the Permanent Committee deliberates and decides on matters referred to it by the Plenary Meeting of the Cabinet.
Article 129. The Cabinet issues decisions and directives.
Article 130. The Cabinet may have non-permanent committees to assist it in its work.
Article 131. The Cabinet is accountable to the Supreme People’s Assembly and to the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly when the Supreme People’s Assembly is not in session.
Article 132. The newly-elected Premier of the Cabinet takes an oath of allegiance on behalf of the members of the Cabinet at the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Article 133. The Commissions and Ministries of the Cabinet are departmental executive bodies of the Cabinet and central departmental bodies of administration.
Article 134. The Commissions and Ministries of the Cabinet supervise and guide the work of the sectors concerned in a uniform way under the guidance of the Cabinet.
Article 135. The Commissions and Ministries of the Cabinet run committee meetings and cadre meetings.
The committee meeting and cadre meeting deliberate and decide on the measures for the implementation of the decisions and directives of the Cabinet and other important matters.
Article 136. The Commissions and Ministries of the Cabinet issue directives.
Section 6. The Local People’s Assembly
Article 137. The People’s Assembly of a province (or municipality directly under central authority), city (or district) or county is the local organ of State power.
Article 138. The local People’s Assembly consists of deputies elected on the principle of universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot.
Article 139. The term of office of the People’s Assembly of a province (or municipality directly under central authority), city (or district) or county is four years.
A new local People’s Assembly is elected according to the decision of the local People’s Committee at the corresponding level prior to the expiry of the former’s term of office.
When unavoidable circumstances render an election impossible, the term of office of the local People’s Assembly is prolonged until an election can be held.
Article 140. The local People’s Assembly has the following duties and authority to:
deliberate and approve the local plan for the development of the national economy and the report on its implementation;
deliberate and approve the local budget and the report on its implementation;
adopt measures to observe State laws in the area concerned;
elect or recall the Chairman, Vice-Chairmen, Secretary and members of the People’s Committee at the corresponding level;
elect or recall the Judges and People’s Assessors of the Court at the corresponding level;
rescind unwarranted decisions and directives of the People’s Committee at the corresponding level and the People’s Assemblies and People’s Committees at lower levels.
Article 141. The local People’s Assembly convenes regular and extraordinary sessions. Regular sessions are convened once or twice a year by the People’s Committee at the corresponding level.
Extraordinary sessions are convened when the People’s Committee at the corresponding level deems them necessary or at the request of a minimum of one-third of the total number of deputies.
Article 142. The local People’s Assembly requires a quorum of at least two-thirds of the total number of deputies in order to meet.
Article 143. The local People’s Assembly elects its Speaker.
The Speaker presides over the sessions.
Article 144. The local People’s Assembly issues decisions.
Section 7. The Local People’s Committee
Article 145. The People’s Committee of a province (or municipality directly under central authority), city (or district) or county exercises the function of the local organ of State power when the People’s Assembly at the corresponding level is not in session and the administrative and executive organ of State power at the corresponding level.
Article 146. The local People’s Committee consists of the Chairman, Vice-Chairmen, Secretary and members.
The term of office of the local People’s Committee is the same as that of the corresponding People’s Assembly.
Article 147. The local People’s Committee has the following duties and authority to:
convene sessions of the People’s Assembly;
organize the election of deputies to the People’s Assembly;
work with the deputies to the People’s Assembly;
implement the decisions and directives of the corresponding local People’s Assembly and the People’s Committees at higher levels, the laws, ordinances and decisions of the Supreme People’s Assembly, the orders of the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’ Republic of Korea, the decisions and directives of the State Affairs Commission, the decrees, decisions and directives of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly and the decisions and directives of the Cabinet and the Commissions and Ministries of the Cabinet;
organize and carry out all administrative affairs in the given area;
draft the local plan for the development of the national economy and adopt measures to implement it;
compile the local budget and adopt measures for its implementation;
adopt measures to maintain public order, protect the property and interests of the State and social, cooperative organizations and safeguard the rights of citizens in the given area;
inspect and control the establishment of order in State administration in the given area;
direct the work of the People’s Committees at lower levels;
rescind unwarranted decisions and directives of the People’s Committees at lower levels, and suspend the implementation of unwarranted decisions of the People’s Assemblies at lower levels.
Article 148. The local People’s Committee convenes Plenary Meetings and Meetings of the Permanent Committee.
The Plenary Meeting of the local People’s Committee consists of all its members.
The Meeting of the Permanent Committee consists of the Chairman, Vice-Chairmen and Secretary.
Article 149. The Plenary Meeting of the local People’s Committee deliberates and decides on important matters arising in implementing its duties and exercising its authority.
The Meeting of the Permanent Committee deliberates and decides on the matters referred to it by the Plenary Meeting.
Article 150. The local People’s Committee issues decisions and directives.
Article 151. The local People’s Committee may have non-permanent committees to assist it in its work.
Article 152. The local People’s Committee is accountable to the corresponding People’s Assembly.
The local People’s Committee is subordinate to the People’s Committees at higher levels, the Cabinet and the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Section 8. The Public Prosecutors Office and the Court
Article 153. Investigation and prosecution are conducted by the Central Public Prosecutors Office, the Public Prosecutors Offices of a province (or municipality directly under central authority), city (or district) or county and the Special Public Prosecutors Office.
Article 154. The term of office of the Prosecutor General of the Central Public Prosecutors Office is the same as that of the Supreme People’s Assembly.
Article 155. Public prosecutors are appointed or removed by the Central Public Prosecutors Office.
Article 156. The functions of the Public Prosecutors Office are to:
ensure the strict observance of State laws by institutions, enterprises, organizations and citizens;
ensure that the decisions and directives of State bodies conform with the Constitution, the laws, ordinances and decisions of the Supreme People’s Assembly, the orders of the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the decisions and directives of the State Affairs Commission, the decrees, decisions and directives of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly, and the decisions and directives of the Cabinet;
identify and institute legal proceedings against criminals and offenders in order to protect the State power of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the socialist system, the property of the State and social, cooperative organizations, personal rights as guaranteed by the Constitution and the people’s lives and property.
Article 157. Investigation and prosecution are conducted under the unified direction of the Central Public Prosecutors Office, and all Public Prosecutors Offices are subordinate to their higher offices and the Central Public Prosecutors Office.
Article 158. The Central Public Prosecutors Office is accountable to the Supreme People’s Assembly and to the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly when the Supreme People’s Assembly is not in session.
Article 159. Justice is administered by the Central Court, the Court of a province (or municipality directly under central authority), the City (or District) or County People’s Courts, and the Special Court.
Verdicts are delivered in the name of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Article 160. The term of office of the President of the Central Court is the same as that of the Supreme People’s Assembly.
The term of office of Judges and People’s Assessors of the Central Court, the Court of a province (or municipality directly under central authority) and the City (or District) or County People’s Courts is the same as that of the People’s Assembly at the corresponding level.
Article 161. The President and Judges of the Special Court are appointed or removed by the Supreme Court.
The People’s Assessors of the Special Court are elected by the soldiers of the unit concerned or by employees at their meetings.
Article 162. The functions of the Court are to:
protect through judicial procedure the State power and the socialist system established in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the property of the State and social, cooperative organizations, personal rights as guaranteed by the Constitution, and the lives and property of citizens;
ensure that all institutions, enterprises, organizations and citizens abide strictly by State laws and staunchly combat class enemies and all law-breakers;
give judgements and findings with regard to property and conduct notarial work.
Article 163. Justice is administered by a Court consisting of one Judge and two People’s Assessors. In special cases there may be three Judges.
Article 164. Court cases are heard in public and the accused is guaranteed the right of defence.
Hearings may be closed to the public as stipulated by law.
Article 165. Judicial proceedings are conducted in the Korean language. Foreign citizens may use their own language during court proceedings.
Article 166. In administering justice, the Court is independent, and judicial proceedings are carried out in strict accordance with the law.
Article 167. The Central Court is the highest judicial organ of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
The Central Court supervises the judicial activities of all the Courts.
Article 168. The Central Court is accountable to the Supreme People’s Assembly and to the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly when the Supreme People’s Assembly is not in session.
CHAPTER VII. EMBLEM, FLAG, ANTHEM AND CAPITAL
Article 169. The national emblem of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea bears the design of a grand hydroelectric power station under Mt. Paektu, the sacred mountain of the revolution, and the beaming light of a five-pointed red star, with ears of rice forming an oval frame, bound with a red ribbon bearing the inscription “The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.”
Article 170. The national flag of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea consists of a central red panel, bordered both above and below by a narrow white stripe and a broad blue stripe. The central red panel bears a five-pointed red star within a white circle near the hoist. The ratio of the width to the length is 1:2.
Article 171. The national anthem of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is “The Patriotic Song.”
Article 172. The capital of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is Pyongyang
>>>>>>> 1b96411b69b36258a96cd593e25cadfbaf9273b0
